# Airbnb price prediction for San Francisco

### Introduction
Airbnb is an **online marketplace** that connects people who want to rent out their homes with people who are looking for accommodations in specific locales. All avid travelers widely enjoy the platform for its access to holiday lets ranging from single rooms to entire properties, varying in quality and affordability, and offering a markedly different experience to that found in a hotel. In recent years the impact of Airbnb’s service on local economics and rental markets has come under the spotlight. In big cosmopoliton cities with a lot of tourism, landlords move their properties out of the long-term rentals and for-sale markets, and into the short-term rental market by turning their rooms and properties into short-term lets which offers an alternative and lucrative source of revenue. But the prices of these properties should be optimally set, given the demand, and other property-specific factors. This is where Airbnb price prediction comes into play. This is a supervised machine learning regression problem. We aim to build the best **Airbnb Price Prediction** model using linear regression, ridge regression, linear support vector regressors, k-nearest neighbours, and random forests. We also perform hyperparameter tuning to attain the best results for the models fit for our usecase. The performance of each of these models are evaluated and compared.

### About the Dataset
Inside Airbnb is an independent, non-commercial organization that collects scraped data that allows you to explore how Airbnb is being used in cities around the world. In this project, we aim to predict the prices for the rental marketplace company in San Francisco, California. 
